# SKills

Skills are extra features gained by characters who level up in classes. Most skills provide a passive benefit (either all the time or can be enabled at will). Some passive skills have a cool down on activation and have a limited amount of charges before they must recharge and be able to be activated again. Active skills are less common but can be activated to make the character perform an action, like a special sword strike which doubles the size of the blade or an impossible dodge away from danger.

Skills can have a wider influence than just acting on/with the character. Some can provide an allowance of some item or money per day. All skills do have to be tied in some way to the character, for activation or effect destination or origination. A skill might make people more likely to not notice a character pick-pocketing. Or a skill might let the character and their companions travel at a faster speed. Some skills provide access to hidden/secret areas.

The skill pool is large and only a few skills are locked to a single class, a handful are restricted to a small collection of classes, and many can be gained through any class. The way skills are gained relates to what the character did to gain xp for the class level up. Skills get assigned randomly from the pool, weighted by the xp-actions of the character for that level. Characters always can reject a level-up and do it again. This can be expensive at later levels. But the weighting of the selection is more prominent at higher levels (and its likely that the class is of higher tier and more rare/restricted skills are available and these would be preferred to some general skill).
